Codebook - Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project
========================================================

Variables:
==========
X_test:           Data set generated by 30% of the volunteers (2947 obs. of 561 var.).
                  Loaded into R from local file.
                  
y_test:           Activity labels for the X_test data set (2947 obs. of 1 var.).
                  Loaded into R from local file.
                  
subject_test:     Volunteer number/label for X_test data set (2947 obs. of 1 var.)
                  Loaded into R from local file.
                  
test:             Collection of "X_test", "y_test" and "subject_test" using "cbind()"

X_train:          Data set generated by 70% of the volunteers (7352 obs. of 561 var.).
                  Loaded into R from local file.
                  
y_train:          Activity labels for the X_train data set (7352 obs. of 1 var.).
                  Loaded into R from local file.
                  
subject_train:    Volunteer number/label for X_train data set (7352 obs. of 1 var.).
                  Loaded into R from local file.
                  
train:            Collection of "X_train", "y_train" and "subject_train" using "cbind()".

master.data:      Combination of "test" and "train" using "rbind()".

features:         List of all variables describing data in "X_test" and "X_train".
                  Loaded into R from local file.
                  
data:             Subset of "master.data" filtering data regarding mean and std only.

meltData:         Reshaped "data" listing all observations for each activity, subject, and variable.

result:           Aggregatted "meltData" listing averages for each activity, subject, and variable.

Names of columns:
==================
  All column names are imported into R from the local file "features.txt" except "activity" and subject, which are not included in the file but are important and included in the data package.

Tranformations:
================
  The original data sets are very neat with no missing value or inappropriate data type.
  
  I performed merging and extracting the data set to focus on the targeted information - measurements on the mean and standard deviation. With the right amount of data, reshapping is carried out to establish the appropriate data structure and aggregating is the final transformation of the data set to find the answer - the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

Reference and links to original data info
=========================================
Source: Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto. 
        Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory

Link to the Website: 
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

Link to the original data:
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip